# SBU-CSE535-Distributed-Systems

CSE 525 | Fall 2021 | Distributed Systems | Scott Stoller

# DiemBFT Consensus Algorithm

Team Members - 
1. Pratik Nagelia
2. Sumeet Pannu
3. Shubham Agrawal

## Platform
1. DistAlgo Version: 1.1.0b15
2. Python Implementation: CPython
3. Python Version: 3.7.12
4. OS: Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS
5. Hosts: Google Cloud Platform (VM)

## Instructions

Instructions to build and run the system:  
Step 1: Install the below Pre-requisites  
Step 2: Run the program by below execution command  
Step 3: Check generated log files

### Step 1 : PreRequsites

1. Python (3.7.12)
2. pip
3. PyNacl & cffi
4. DistAlgo

```
pip3 install pynacl
pip3 install pyDistAlgo  
python3.7 -m pip install cffi
```

### Download
```
1. DistAlgo ( http://distalgo.cs.stonybrook.edu/tutorial )
2. pip install pynacl  ( to download Libsodium crypto library which is used for signatures and crypto hashing )
```

### Execution and scripts
Run the program by executing below command:

```
python3.7 -m da main_run_tests.da ./config/config.json
```



### Workload Generation
Various workload as well as test cases can be generated by editing the `diemBFT/config/config.json` file. The json configuration is self-explainatory.


### Bugs and Limitations

1. The system miss-behaves for concurrent transactions by the client
2. The system works for max 2 clients in parallel and starts miss-behaving for further more clients
3. The program does not generate automated reports
4. The last transaction is not commited by all the replias. It waits for another transaction message to initiate another proposal to commit in other replicas.


### Main Files

The `diemBFT` directory is root directory containing all the files for the system.  
The `main_run_tests.da` is the main Runner file which starts the program and runs the tests.


### Code Size

Non Blank Non-comment lines of code

```
> brew install cloc
> cloc diemBFT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Language                     files          blank        comment           code
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DAL                             22            142              1            889
JSON                             2              0              0             90
Markdown                         1             30              0             79
Python                           1              3              1             36
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUM:                            26            175              2           1094
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```
Algorithm: 889  
Other:  205
Total:   1094
(Numbers generated using CLOC https://github.com/AlDanial/cloc) 

Approximately 622 Lines (Algo) are the main algorithm. Remaining 266 (0.30%) functionalities interleaved with the algorithm.

### Language Feature Usage

list comprehensions: 6  
dictionary comprehensions:  8 
set comprehensions:   
aggregations:   
quantifications:   
await statements: 3  
receive handlers: 7  

### Contributions

1. Sumeet Pannu - Understanding the algorithm, completed parts of code in Node, Ledger, Leader Election, Block Tree, Safety, Pacemaker, Testing and documentation.

2. Pratik Nagelia - Understanding the algorithm, completed the parts of code in Node, Block tree, Ledger, Safety, Pacemaker, Clients,  Testing and documentation.

3. Shubham Agrawal - Understanding the algorithm, completed parts of code in Node, Block Tree, Signatures, Safety, Ledger, Clients, Testing and documentation.
